~~Ambusher - You have trained in hit-and-run tactics and excel at maximizing the benefits of surprise. Your abilities help you get the drop on your enemies, make the most of hiding, and fight on the run. These abilities are usually earned through hard-won experience. You might have grown up in the shadow of a great evil that made regular forays into your homelands. Faced with an overwhelming foe, you learned from a young age to set traps, wait in ambush, and defeat a much more powerful enemy by using your knowledge of your homeland to your advantage. Or you might have been a bandit or raider yourself, but given up that life for a career on the right side of the law.

Level 1: Improved Initiative
Level 3: First Strike
Level 6: Ambush
Level 9: Covert Strike

~~Defender - Through conscious effort or menacing presence, you command attention on the battlefield. You protect those who cannot protect themselves, often putting yourself at great risk by intercepting enemies' attacks. Alert, wary, and often selfless, you stand as a bulwark against the tide of enemy combatants. Defenders arise from many different backgrounds and professions. You might have been a professional soldier, having learned techniques from fighting in military formations. Alternatively, you could be a valiant knight, and the act of protection arises from a singular commitment to a chivalric code.

Level 1: Interposing Shield
Level 3: Hold the Line
Level 6: Combat Reflexes
Level 9: Combat Superiority

~~Hedge Magician - You are a self-taught magic user, colloquially referred to as a hedge magician. You learned magic on your own, teaching yourself using lore you managed to scrounge and constant trial and error-not to mention a healthy dose of what can best be described as mystic insight. The abilities you gain as you progress along this path include learning to combine material components to create potions, securing the assistance of a helpful spirit, internalizing the basic formulas of the simplest spells, then learning how to defend yourself from other magicians who might come calling. You might be a hermit, teaching yourself the basics of magic while exiled from civilization. Alternatively, you might be one of the cunning folk (or a witch, depending on how the local villagers feel about you), learning magic according to ancient rites and teachings handed down over the generations.

Level 1: Herbalism
Level 3: Find Familiar
Level 6: Arcane Dabbler
Level 9: Defensive Ward

~~Metamagician - You know how to manipulate magical energy to alter your spells. Many spellcasters train in the art of metamagic in order to get the most out of their spells. You understand better than anyone else how to twist your spells to get the desired effect, surprising your foes with your versatility. You likely spent some time studying magical theory, for example as a student in a wizard's academy or a scholar in a magical library. Alternatively, you might have learned how to manipulate your spells through painful trial and error, leaving you with scars of failed experiments.

Level 1: Distant Spell
Level 3: Energy Admixture
Level 6: Maximize Spell
Level 9: Heighten Spell

~~Mystical Healer - Having studied the healing arts, you work to ease suffering, mend wounds, and cure sickness. You know how to conjure magical healing to seal wounds and purge the body of poisons. Your ministrations bring hope to the hopeless, health to the sick, and perhaps even life to the dying. You might have been an apprentice to a village herb gatherer, a wise one who tended to the villagers' ills. Or perhaps you learned at the side of a wealthy family's personal physician. You could have served as a medic in a military company, aiding injured soldiers while battle raged around you. Or perhaps you are an initiate of a deity such as the Lifegiver, charged with offering healing wherever it is needed.

Level 1: Healing Initiate
Level 3: Magical Rejuvenation
Level 6: Purge Magic
Level 9: Restore Life

~~Polearm Master - Polearms, such as glaives, halberds, and other reach weapons, are typically the weapon of choice for well-armed masses of infantry. Their length allows tightly packed ranks of warriors to deliver many attacks at once, and they also excel at creating defensive formations against larger creatures. You have trained with polearms, likely as part of a militia or other military unit, and have learned to apply what you know to the small, desperate skirmishes that adventurers face. Many adventuring fighters with a background as mercenaries practice this specialty.

Level 1: Polearm Training
Level 3: Hafted Weapon
Level 6: Two-Weapon Defense
Level 9: Warding Polearm

~~Reaper - Some warriors rely on elegance and speed. You prefer using the biggest weapon you can find to deliver the most devastating blows possible. You likely trained in a mercenary company or other group that focused on battling large creatures. Hill giants and ogres rely on their endurance to overwhelm their foes. Your training has taught you to bring such foes down.

Level 1: Weapon Mastery
Level 3: Cleave
Level 6: Combat Reflexes
Level 9: Relentless

~~Sharpshooter - Sharpshooters have keen eyes and steady hands, letting them hit the most difficult targets. They have perfected their techniques with ranged weapons, letting them launch missile after missile with incredible speed and precision. While many sharpshooters favor bows, some use thrown weapons, slings, and even crossbows. As a sharpshooter, you may be an archer in the king's army, a crossbow-toting assassin ever-ready for assignment, or a hunter whose life and livelihood depend on your ability to bring down prey with a streaking arrow.

Level 1: Precise Shot
Level 3: Weapon Mastery
Level 6: Sniper
Level 9: Called Shot

~~Skirmisher - The best way to avoid being a target is to never stand still. You know that being fast, mobile, and slippery is sure to guarantee your enduring safety. Likewise, your speed catches your enemies off-guard, allowing you to slip in, strike, and then retreat before your enemies have a chance to pin you down. You might be a scout, used to traveling over long distances and evading danger instead of confronting it head-on. Alternatively, you might have lived as a street urchin, where your ability to move quickly through dangerous areas saved you from being snatched up by the city watch, or worse, having your meager possessions stolen by other street toughs.

Level 1: ChargeLevel 3: Tumbling Movement
Level 6: Spring Attack
Level 9: Evasive Movement

~~Skulker - A subtle approach sometimes is the best way to deal with a powerful opponent or a touchy situation. Why trouble the giants guarding an enormous ruby when you can slip in and take it without disturbing them? Your approach makes things easier for everyone. You're a master of stealth, hiding in circumstances that others would find impossible and learning to avoid the common mistakes that scouts and sneak-thieves make to give themselves away. The life of an adventurer is probably not all that different from what you did before. You might have been a scout, sneaking up on enemy forces to learn details of their movements or sabotage their supplies. Perhaps you were a messenger tasked with crossing dangerous regions where it was better to avoid predators than to fight them. Or you might have been a pickpocket or a spy, using your stealth for unsavory ends.

Level 1: Hide in Shadows
Level 3: Ambush
Level 6: Skill Focus(Sneak)
Level 9: Skill Supremacy(Sneak)

~~Specialist - This specialty represents perhaps the broadest range of characters. While others allow their skills to grow organically, you make a point of mastering your skills. As you progress along this path, you have the opportunity to learn more skills and to increase your proficiency with those you have. Think about what environment might have fostered this devotion. Are you a dabbler in many varied skills, or deeply invested in a few key skills? Are you a sage seeking to increase the breadth and depth of your knowledge? Or perhaps you're a charlatan who wants to be able to convincingly adopt many new identities.

Level 1: Superior Skill Training
Level 3: Superior Skill Training
Level 6: Skill Focus
Level 9: Skill Supremacy

~~Survivor - You are tough. You not only stand up to wounds that would fell a lesser adventurer, but also continue to push forward when others would need to stop for rest. You have a deep reserve of health that gives you the ability to recover more quickly than most people. You likely had a harsh life before becoming an adventurer. You might have lived in an extreme environment, such as a tundra or a desert, where survival was a daily challenge. Perhaps you are an escaped slave who had to endure terrible conditions, or a prisoner on the run. Or your exceptional endurance could be supernatural in nature, the result of a fey blessing at your birth or a drop of giant blood in your ancestry.

Level 1: Durable
Level 3: Toughness
Level 6: Resilience
Level 9: Iron Hide

~~Swashbuckler - Elegant weapons are the mark of a civilized warrior, someone for whom precision and panache are elements of skill, not simple flourishes. Your style is all about fluidity, quick reactions, and being nimble enough to step away when things grow too dangerous. You likely grew up in a city, since weapons such as the rapier are products of a civilized realm. You might also have been trained by a skilled tutor, one hired by your parents or guardian in hopes of teaching you the skills you need to defend yourself.

Level 1: Seize the Advantage
Level 3: Combat Reflexes
Level 6: Spring Attack
Level 9: Riposte

~~Two Weapon Fighter - The art of fighting with two weapons can be difficult to master, but you have both the grace and the skill to pull off such a complex fighting style. Switching from offense to defense and back again, you keep your enemies unbalanced by striking from two directions at once, weaving your weapons in a complex pattern to turn aside strikes and set up swift counterattacks.

Level 1: Dual Wielding
Level 3: Two-Weapon Defense
Level 6: Weapon Mastery
Level 9: Two-Weapon Strike